Add blog post on Carlos' activities for Spyder 6 (#41)
spyder-ide/spyder-website: src/routes/blog/spyder-6-carlos/+page.md

---
title: "Spyder 6 project lead: Remote development interface and application UI/UX improvements"
author:
  - ccordoba12
  - camgerlach
tags: Feature, Spyder6
category: Releases

> pub_date: 2024-12-23

Author: ```suggestion
pub_date: 2024-12-28
```

summary: "Spyder's lead maintainer, Carlos Cordoba, shares his insights on the projects and features he helped develop for Spyder 6.0, particularly UI/UX and where the IDE is headed next."
---

> I started out using Spyder just like many of you, employing it for my research in modeling and simulation all the way back in late 2009, shortly after it was first publicly released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I started out using Spyder just like many of you, employing it for my research in modeling and simulation of physical systems all the way back in late 2009, shortly after it was first publicly released.
```

Be more specific about what kind of simulations I was doing.

> Back then, Spyder didn't have rendered, rich-text help in the Help pane, just plain text that was harder to read and parse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Back then, Spyder didn't have rich-text help in the Help pane, just plain text that was harder to read and parse.
```

I think `rendered` is not really necessary.

In 2010 I decided to develop this feature myself, which became my first substantial contribution to Spyder.
After many more contributions over time, I became the lead maintainer in 2013 when Spyder's original author [Pierre Raybaut](https://pierreraybaut.github.io/) moved on.

> In 2023, Spyder received a [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/) Essential Open Source Software for Science [Cycle 5 grant, number 384](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/enhancing-spyder-ide-remote-support-for-scientific-research-in-python/) to support a new remote development architecture for Spyder as well as related development and maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2023, Spyder received a [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/) Essential Open Source Software for Science [Cycle 5 grant, number 384](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/enhancing-spyder-ide-remote-support-for-scientific-research-in-python/) to support a new remote development architecture for the project, as well as related development and maintenance.
```

* Avoid repeating `Spyder` twice in the same sentence.
* Add comma to make the sentence a bit easier to read.

Author: ```suggestion
In 2023, Spyder received a [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/) Essential Open Source Software for Science [Cycle 5 grant, number 384](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/enhancing-spyder-ide-remote-support-for-scientific-research-in-python/) to support a new remote development architecture for the IDE, as well as related development and maintenance.
```

Changed it to "the IDE" since that specifically refers to the application rather than just the overall "projecT"

> With this grant, we've been able to develop Spyder 6 with remote development support, as well as fund a whole team of developers to work on the project—including myself, with Spyder becoming my full-time job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this grant, we've been able to fund a whole team of developers to work on Spyder—including myself, with this becoming my full-time job.
```

* Remove what was already said at the end of the previous sentence because it's repetitive.
* Make amendments to go with my previous suggestion.

Let's go through what I've worked on for Spyder 6!

## Implementing the remote development frontend

![New remote connection manager dialog in Spyder, listing the configurable settings for a new remote host](remote-connection-manager-new.png "Spyder's new remote connection manager allows saving all the SSH settings needed for connection to a remote host")

> I was in charge implementing the frontend (graphical interface) of the new remote development architecture, with [Hendrik](https://github.com/hlouzada) responsible for [the backend](../spyder-6-remote-development).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I was in charge of implementing the frontend (or graphical interface) of the new remote development architecture, with [Hendrik](https://github.com/hlouzada) responsible for [the backend](../spyder-6-remote-development).
```

* `of` seems missing.
* Add `or` to make the sentence a bit easier to read.

> First, I [I created](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21734) a generic base class for complex dialogs that need a sidebar, making the existing Preferences window layout modular and reusable by other plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, [I created](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21734) a generic base class for complex dialogs that need a sidebar, making the existing Preferences layout reusable by other plugins.
```

* Remove repeated `I`.
* `window` seems unnecessary to me.
* Remove `modular` to go more directly to the point in this sentence. It's also used in the next one.

Similarly, [I made](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21857) the individual preference pane widget modular and generic, as well as added a number of UI improvements to benefit everything that uses it.

![Before and after of an array editor widget, showing a more intuitive and less space-consuming layout](array-builder-improvement.png "UI improvements to the array builder widget")

> With that preliminary work out of the way, [I implemented](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22079) the remote connection manager dialog to create and manage connections to remote servers, offering different SSH authentication methods with user credentials saved securely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With that preliminary work out of the way, [I implemented](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22079) the remote connection manager dialog to create connections to remote servers, offering different SSH authentication methods with user credentials saved securely.
```

Avoid repetition (I think the word `manager` before implies that the dialog allows to manage connections).

Author: Yeah, I didn't like that, but its strange that it only lists creating and not managing connections as things it can do.

How about this? Also made some other improvements.

```suggestion
With that preliminary work out of the way, [I implemented](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22079) the remote connection manager to create, edit and interact with connections to other hosts.
It offers multiple SSH authentication methods with user credentials saved securely.
```

This information is used to automatically open a connection, install the server [Hendrik developed](../spyder-6-remote-development), start a Spyder Kernel in the remote machine and create an IPython console connected to it.
In Spyder 5, you needed to do all that by hand, which was quite a [long and cumbersome process](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/5/panes/ipythonconsole.html#connect-to-a-remote-kernel).

> With the improvements in Spyder 6, all you need to do is enter your basic SSH credentials the first time you can connect, and Spyder takes care of everything else with one click!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the improvements in Spyder 6, all you need to do is enter your basic SSH credentials the first time you want to connect to a remote machine, and Spyder will take care of everything else with one click!
```

* `you can connect` sounds odd to me.
* Change to future time in the second clause because it happens after you enter your credentials (not sure about this one though).

Author: > `you can connect` sounds odd to me.

Yeah, editing mistake; a simpler fix is just removing the word "can". Since it is already well established in the paragraph (and the post) that we're connecting to remote machines, I don't think we need to repeat that in this context, as it makes the sentence more wordy and flow a bit less well.

> Change to future time in the second clause because it happens after you enter your credentials (not sure about this one though).

Either one is correct/idiomatic in this specific context. (If you were talking about a specific interaction, if the user hadn't done it yet, then you _would_ say "Just enter your credentials, and Spyder will take care of the rest"). However, "takes" is a bit more concise and flows a bit better (IMO).

Thus:

```suggestion
With the improvements in Spyder 6, you just need to enter your SSH credentials the first time you connect, and Spyder takes care of everything from there with one click!
```

![Spyder connection status dialog in the remote connections manager, showing a connected icon, connection information and a detailed log of connection progress steps](remote-connection-status-log.png "The detailed remote connection log in the connection status window")

> Finally, [I added](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22328) detailed logging messages for remote connections in the status dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, [I added](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22328) detailed logging messages for remote connections in the status tab.
```

The dialog is the same one as before. Messages are shown in the status tab of that dialog.

This helps you more easily track the connection progress, as well as exactly what is happening behind the scenes to aid in debugging any problems that may arise.

## Improving UI/UX

![Before and after of the Spyder plugin management preference pane, showing a complete overhaul from just checkboxes next to plugin names, to a detailed list of plugins displaying their name, icon, description, internal/external status and enable checkbox; also including external plugins, not shown previously](plugin-manager-pane.png "Comprehensive overhaul to the plugin manager")

> Aside from working on the remote connection manager itself, I spent most of my remaining energies during the Spyder 6 cycle working on many smaller UI/UX fixes and enhancements throughout the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aside from working on the remote connection manager itself, I spent most of my remaining energies during the Spyder 6 cycle working on many UI/UX fixes and enhancements throughout the application.
```

Some were not that small.

> For these, I followed the best practice design patterns followed by modern web applications, so users have an easier time when switching between different environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For these, I followed the best design patterns found in modern web applications, so users have an easier time when switching between different environments.
```

* Simplify sentence to make it easier to read.
* Remove `followed` because it was repeated.

The end result was a much more coherent and intuitive UI, as well as a more attractive one.

The biggest single change was a [complete overhaul](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21101) of the plugin manager preferences pane, to make it much more useful and user-friendly as well as add support for listing external along with internal plugins.

> Previously, it only showed a simplistic set of checkboxes next to each internal plugin's name with no other styling or information, and with no place to list external plugins (which the you're much more likely to want to enable/disable vs. internal ones).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, it only showed a simple set of checkboxes next to each internal plugin's name with no other information, and no place to list external plugins (which you're more likely to want to enable/disable vs. internal ones).
```

* `simplistic` ->  `simple` to not talk badly about previous work.
* Simplify sentence to make it flow better.
* `the` seems unnecessary.

After an extensive reworking, it is now a much more informative and appealing scrollable list, showing each plugin's icon, short description, internal/external status and enable/disable checkbox.

> Furthermore, external plugins are now included in the list, shown at the top for easy access, with plugins within each group sorted alphabetically by (localized) name to aid navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, external plugins are now shown at the top for easy access, with plugins within each group sorted alphabetically by its localized name to aid navigation.
```

* It's already mentioned that external plugins are included, so we don't need to repeat that again.
* Don't write `localized` in parenthesis to not give the impression that it's of little importance.

![Part of Spyder preferences, showing dropdowns for interface font and font size, as well as a checked by default option to use the system native font](interface-font-config-option.png "New interface font options in Spyder preferences")

Another significant improvement was [adding support](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/20933) for configuring the Spyder's interface font.

> This was requested by many Spyder Chinese users on Windows, where the default font for Latin text was ugly and difficult to read will benefit other users who prefer a different UI font than the current default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was requested by many Spyder Chinese users on Windows, where the default font for Latin text is ugly and difficult to read.
It'll also benefit other users who prefer a different UI font than the current default.
```

* The font is still ugly.
* The last clause seems actually like a different sentence.

> The work also included many other enhancements and fixes throughout the Spyder interface to support this change and fix other issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The work also included other enhancements and fixes throughout the Spyder interface to support this change and fix many font-related inconsistencies.
```

* Give more weight to this sentence by rewriting it a bit.
* Avoid repeating `other`.

> ![Before and after for Spyder preferences, showing a much more organized modern-looking preferences list, removed extra lines around pane groups and a larger and more comfortable layout](preferences-ui-improvements.png "Refined layout and style for Spyder Preferences")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Before and after for Spyder preferences, showing a much more organized and modern-looking preferences list, removed extra lines around pane groups and a larger and more comfortable layout](preferences-ui-improvements.png "Refined layout and style for Spyder Preferences")
```

Seems missing.

> The Spyder Preferences dialog as a whole got [many overall UI improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21233), most prominent being a much more organized listing the preferences panes by group/importance and then alphabetically within them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Spyder Preferences dialog as a whole got [many overall UI improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21233), most prominent being a much more organized listing of the preferences panes by group/importance and then alphabetically within them.
```

Seems missing.

> The sidebar also received a major layout and styling overhaul, making it much less cramped and much more refined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sidebar also received a major layout and styling overhaul, making it much less cramped and more refined.
```

Avoid using `much` twice.

> The pane area was cleaned up, removing redundant lines and elements and making the spacing more comfortable and consistent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pane area was cleaned up, removing redundant lines and elements, and making the spacing more comfortable and consistent.
```

I think this makes the sentence easier to read.

Finally, numerous bugs, issues and minor tweaks were addressed throughout.

> ![Part of Spyder preferences, showing dropdowns for interface font and font size, as well as a checked by default option to use the system native font](plots-pane-ui-improvements.png "Spyder plots pane with revised toolbar and greatly improved zoom UX")

Reviewer: The alt text of this image seems incorrect. Please fix it.

Author: Done

```suggestion
![Composite showing a before and after comparison of the Plots pane toolbar with streamlined zoom controls in its own section, and an image showing the revised Plots pane with its new Fit Plots button](plots-pane-ui-improvements.png "Spyder plots pane with revised toolbar and greatly improved zoom UX")
```

The Plots pane also saw [plenty of love](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22029), with a much more intuitive zooming and sizing experience.
Plots are still fit to the pane by default, but zoom in/out buttons are now enabled by default, and a new toolbar button allows toggling between fit to window and 1:1 actual size.
On top of that, zoom level is now saved per plot, and double-clicking a plot shows it full size.

> Additionally, the toolbar is more organized and users can drag and drop their plots in the list to re-order them as they wish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the toolbar is more organized and users can drag and drop their plots in the thumbnail list to the right to re-order them as they wish.
```

It's not clear what list we're talking about.

> Put together, this solves a significant set of past pain points that Spyder users and developers have previously expressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Put together, this solves a significant set of past pain points that Spyder users and developers have expressed about this pane.
```

* If those were `past pain points` they must have been expressed previously. So, no need to restate that.
* Be more explicit about what we're talking about.

Author: IMO, it made a lot more sense to just remove the "past" and keeping "previously" instead since the expression is specifically the thing that was previous. Also flipped "previously expressed" to "expressed previously" as it sounds a bit better in context.

Similarly, the pain points are more proximate to the Plots pane so instead of adding a somewhat akward addendum, I instead just put "Plots" before "pain" (and no, couldn't resist the implicit pun)

```suggestion
Put together, this solves a significant set of pain points that Spyder users and developers expressed previously about this pane.
```

> ![Before and after of the Spyder consoles menu, with the new version featuring refined layout and icons and displaying a new Open in Environment submenu offering environments that a console can be opened in](console-menu-added.png "Refined Consoles menu with new Open in Environment submenu")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Before and after of the Spyder consoles menu, with the new version featuring refined layout and icons and displaying a new Open in Environment submenu, offering environments that a console can be opened in](console-menu-added.png "Refined Consoles menu with new Open in Environment submenu")
```

Seems missing.

I made numerous other UI/UX enhancements across Spyder, far too many to list here.
Here's a sampling of some more:

> * [Rendering tweaks to menus](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21511) to menus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Rendering tweaks to menus](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21511)
```

Remove repeated text.

* [Styling improvements to pane tab bars](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21133)

> * [Sizing fixes to elements & new close buttons](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21276)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

It's not that easy to describe what I did in that PR, so let's remove it.

* [New improved comboboxes](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21555)
* [UI refinements to the Find pane](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21622)
* [Enhancements to hovers, hints & calltips](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21710)
* [Display & layout upgrades to Files/Project](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21813)

> * [Remove redundant icons on OK, Cancel, etc](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21945)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Remove redundant icons on OK, Cancel, etc, buttons on Linux](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21945)
```

Improve description.

> * [Solutions to many other UI issues](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21707)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is too generic to use it in the blog. So, let's remove it.

Author: Okay

## Supporting the work of others

![Spyder's revised About dialog, with tabs Overview, Community and Legal. Overview tab shows the IDE's name, version, website, major dependency versions and social media links, in an organized and comfortable layout](spyder6-about-dialog.png "Revised Spyder 6 About dialog, on which Carlos worked")

> Beyond my own projects, a large part of my role as a maintainer and leader is supporting the work of others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond my own tasks, a large part of my role as a maintainer and leader is supporting the work of others.
```

Sounds better to me.

Author: The issue here is a task is a much smaller unit of work, closer to a PR versus what someone would be funded to do as their whole project. It would be okay if you were directly reviewing, contributing or mentoring someone else's work (as this section and the earlier introduction had initially led me to believe). However, what's actually happening here is you are working on your own tasks (i.e. ≈PRs) that fall under the umbrella of someone else's overall project.

I can't really think of a good word here that would serve a similar purpose with the correct connotations, intonation, etc, but always open to suggestions!

Author: ```suggestion
Beyond the remote development frontend and the UI/UX work, a large part of my role as a maintainer and leader is supporting the work of others.
```

I've assisted [Juan-Sebsatian Bautista](https://github.com/jsbautista), one of our junior developers, in several significant enhancements to Spyder's UI.

> In particular, [we've made UI/UX improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21134) to layout and scaling of the empty pane display and added a clear message if the emptiness is due to the IPython Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, [I've made UI/UX improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21134) to the layout and scaling of the empty pane widget and added a message if the emptiness is due to a faulty IPython Console.
```

* The blog is written in first person.
* `the` seems missing.
* `widget` seems better to me than `display`.
* Clarify the improvements related to the IPython console.

Author: I initially worded this section in third person since you were supposedly supporting/collaborating with others in their work per how you'd initially described it, but yeah looking at the various PRs it didn't really find a lot of public evidence of that.

> As part of that work, we also enhanced the About dialog layout as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Juan didn't work on this (I made those enhancements thanks to a suggestion from Daniel).
* Perhaps we should remove the screenshot for it too?

Author: I see—I was confused why this seemingly unrelated improvements to About were included in a PR about pane empty messages.

However, he may not have worked on it, but _you_ did (as this post's subject). So, why not mention it as a sidenote in that context?

```suggestion
As part of that work, I also took the opportunity to enhance the About dialog's layout.
```

The other issue is we would need to find a replacement for the About dialog image since it would leave a significant wall of text and would break the flow a bit, and I'm not really sure what else would fit to put there unless I do a bunch of re-writing/re-organization (which probably isn't the best use of our time).

![Spyder Consoles with the New Console in Environment submenu displayed, showing new sections and user-added environments](console-envs-menu-improvements.png "UI improvements to the new console in environment menu")

> Additionally, I helped Juan-Sebsatian with [several significant improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22200) to the console environments menu and statusbar widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, I helped Juan-Sebsatian with [several significant improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22200) to the console environments menu.
```

He didn't work on the status bar widget,

Author: Okay, understood. The status bar change sounded like a significant part of the PR, but if that was secondary/behind the scenes refactoring then I guess its easiest to just not mention it.

> These include showing user-added environments in the console envs menus for easy access, and breaking the consoles menu into sections by environment type for easier navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These include showing user-added environments in the console envs menu for easy access, and breaking that menu into sections by environment type for easier navigation.
```

* It's simpler to talk about a single menu.
* Avoid repetition.

> It also consolidates environment tracking functionality previously duplicated between the IPython Console and the Python Interpreter preference pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also consolidates environment tracking functionality previously duplicated between the IPython Console and Python Interpreter plugins.
```

The functionality was actually in one of the Python interpreter plugin widgets.

Author: Yeah, I wanted to connect it to things users were more directly familiar with, but guess its not worth it in this case.

![Spyder switcher dialog, with a text box and a list of matching files and other objects](file-switcher.png "Switcher in Spyder 6, with Carlos' UI improvements")

> I aided [Angela Remolina](https://github.com/AngelaRemolina)'s work on improving and adding real-time file search to the Switcher (`Ctrl-P`), making [a number of improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21275( to its performance and UI/UX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I aided [Angela Remolina](https://github.com/AngelaRemolina)'s work on adding real-time file search for the current project to the Switcher (`Ctrl-P`), making [a number of improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21275) to its performance and UI.
```

* `improving` is not correct because that was not working before.
* Search is for the current project.
* Fix markdown syntax error.
* I did UI improvements, not UX ones.

Author: Removing the "performance" mention here per your comments below

```suggestion
I aided [Angela Remolina](https://github.com/AngelaRemolina)'s work on adding real-time file search for the current project to the Switcher (`Ctrl-P`), making [a number of improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/21275) to its UI.
```

> These changes make the switcher compute file results asynchronously in a separate process to avoid interface freezes and improve performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes make the switcher compute file results asynchronously in a separate process to avoid interface freezes.
```

* `improve performance` was mentioned in the previous sentence.

Author: IMO, I think it makes more sense to mention this detail here than in the overview sentence if you prefer not to mention it twice, so I removed it there instead.

> Additionally, it highlights the matching characters in the results, filters the results to only include non-binary, text files that can reasonably be human-edited, clarifies the section layout and improves the tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, it filters the results to only include non-binary, text files that can be edited in the Editor, clarifies the section layout and improves the tests.
```

* Matching characters were shown before.
* Simplify sentence so it flows better.

Author: Oh, but you said under Description of Changes in the PR description

> * Highlight matched characters of Projects switcher results that match the searched text.

Also, "edited in the Editor" sounds rather repetitive, don't you think? 😉 

Without that change, it would be

```suggestion
Additionally, it now highlights the matching characters in the project search results, filters the results to only include text files that can edited, clarifies the section layout and improves the tests.
```

![Before and after screenshots of specific parts of Spyder's debugger pane, highlighting the additional and refined toolbar icons/buttons and the fix to jarring coloars in the stack browser](debugger-pane-ui-improvements.png "Some of Carlos' improvements to the Debugger pane UI")

Furthermore, I supported [Quentin Peter](https://github.com/impact27)'s work on the new Debugger pane with [more UI/UX improvements](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22163).

> We added a new postmortem debugging toolbar button, new icons for the `Go to Editor`, `Interrupt and Debug`, and `List Breakpoints` buttons, and section dividers to make the toolbar easier to navigate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I added a new postmortem debugging toolbar button, new icons for the `Go to Editor`, `Interrupt and Debug`, and `List Breakpoints` buttons, and section dividers to make the toolbar easier to navigate.
```

The blog is in first person.

Author: As mentioned above, I initially thought these PRs were collaborations as the intro para suggests before I investigated them more

> Additionally, we made the breakpoints table collapsible and fixed a theme incompatibility issue in the frames browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, I made the breakpoints table collapsible and fixed a theme incompatibility issue in the frames browser.
```

First person.

![Before and after of Spyder's run preferences pane, on the Run Executors tab now showing a list of default run presets as well as a streamlined and more compact layout](run-preferences.png "Run preferences, showing Carlos' UI improvements")

Finally, I built upon [Edgar Margffoy](https://github.com/andfoy) and [Stephannie Jimenez](https://github.com/steff456)’s new modular architecture for running files in Spyder 6, greatly [improving its UI and UX](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/22141).

> These changes added customizable default run presets for specific file types, making it easier to customize run behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes added customizable default run presets for specific file types, making it easier to adjust execution behavior.
```

Avoid repeating `customize` and `run`.

> In addition, the layout of that preference pane along with the per-file run config and the run config dialog are substantially simplified, cleaned up and polished, making the UI easier to use and more intuitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the layout of that preference pane along with the per-file run configuration dialog are substantially simplified, cleaned up and polished, making the UI easier to use and more intuitive.
```

Only talk about the run configuration dialog because it's easier to understand.

Author: Then we can just do:

```suggestion
In addition, the layout of that preference pane and the per-file run configuration dialog are substantially simplified, cleaned up and polished, making the UI easier to use and more intuitive.
```

> ![Before and after of Spyder's Run Config Per File dialog listing file execution settings, with the after version showing a simpler, collapsible and more refined layout](run-config-per-file.png "Carlos' UI improvements to the Run Config Per File dialog")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Before and after of Spyder's Run Configuration Per File dialog listing file execution settings, with the after version showing a simpler, collapsible and more refined layout](run-config-per-file.png "Carlos' UI improvements to the Run Config Per File dialog")
```

Be explicit about it.

## Insights going forward

> The Editor migration and the new remote client plugin were a fascinating set of stress tests for Spyder's plugin API, originally introduced in Spyder 5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new remote client plugin was a fascinating set of stress tests for Spyder's plugin API, originally introduced in Spyder 5.
```

* Only talk about the remote client to emphasize my work.
* It also makes more sense with the next paragraph (see below).

Author: Oh, oops—somehow I got that confused here in the steps between your original outline and the final draft

They required implementing close integration with the IPython Console, but without affecting the already extensive connections between the console and several other plugins.

> Fortunately, our API passed the test really well, and we were able to have a working prototype of the Editor as a plugin for Linux and Mac in just four months.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, our API passed the test really well, since we were able to have a working prototype of the remote client as a plugin for Linux and Mac in just four months.
```

The editor migration took almost a year and it wasn't created from scratch, like the remote client plugin.

This means that we're in good shape to tackle the complex challenges that will come in 6.1 and beyond to add remote development capabilities to other Spyder plugins, such as the Editor and Projects.

## What's next for Spyder?

![Spyder-Env-Manager pane showing an environment selector and a list of installed package names, descriptions and versions as well as toolbar options to interact with them](spyder-env-manager-alpha.png "Working alpha version of the Spyder-Env-Manager plugin")

> Next year, I'll be working on more UI/UX improvements on several different fronts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next year, I'll be working on more UI/UX improvements on different fronts.
```

`more` is before, so I think `several` is unnecessary.

Author: More means "additional" here and refers to the number of individual UI improvements, not the number of different _types_ of UI improvements, while "different fronts" without "several" sounds a bit strange to me. The shortened construction also brings _more_ (heh) attention to the double "on" (after fixing your original grammar using "in" for the second).

So, we could rewrite it like this:

```suggestion
Next year, I'll be making more UI/UX improvements on several different fronts.
```

or, using your original "in"

```suggestion
Next year, I'll be working on more UI/UX improvements in several different areas.
```

But I like your original wording of "different fronts" as more clever and less generic-sounding so I prefer the former.

I'll integrate the [Spyder-Env-Manager](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-env-manager) plugin, developed by [Daniel Althviz](https://github.com/dalthviz) and [Juan-Sebsatian Bautista](https://github.com/jsbautista), with the remote development client.

> Spyder-Env-Manager allows you to create Conda environments as well as install and manage packages within them from within Spyder's graphical interface—no arcane commands or external GUIs, and mo separate install of Anaconda with our standalone installers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spyder-Env-Manager allows you to create Conda environments as well as install and manage packages within them directly from Spyder—no arcane commands or external GUIs, and no separate install of Anaconda will be necessary with our standalone installers.
```

* Remove repeated `within`
* Make the sentence easier to read.

Author: I kept the first change, but I modified the second to "needed" (missing from the original) since "will be necessary" does not fit within the grammar/phrasing in that specific context.

```suggestion
Spyder-Env-Manager allows you to create Conda environments as well as install and manage packages within them directly from Spyder—no arcane commands or external GUIs, and no separate install of Anaconda needed with our standalone installers.
```

> With the integration, you'll be able to create and manage Conda environments on remote machines just as easily as locally, without needing to install anything on the remote server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this integration, you'll be able to create environments on remote machines just as easily as locally, without needing to install anything on the server.
```

Decrease verbosity.

In addition, I'll be adding new preferences to allow you to easily associate your Spyder projects with Conda environments.

> That way, they can be automatically activated both for installing packages and running code, addressing the all too common issue of doing one or the other in the wrong environment without realizing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That way, they will be automatically activated both for installing packages and running code, addressing the all too common issue of doing one or the other in the wrong environment without realizing.
```

Envs **will** be automatically activated for both operations.

Finally, I'll improve the file/symbol switcher's look-and-feel and integrate it with other plugins.

> For example, you'll be able to type the IPython console to quickly open or switch to a specific console or Python environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you'll be able to type the IPython console you want to switch to or quickly open through the switcher.
```

The current version is not easy to understand for me. This is my suggestion to improve it.

Author: Yeah, the sentence syntax is quite complex, but the suggestion I find even more confusing since it also took a couple reads to parse and the intended meaning is ambiguous due to the ambiguity in the left operand to the final "or" due to the construction, as well as the very unbalanced length of the presumably intended operands. It reads something like

> For example, you'll be able to (type the IPython console you want to switch to,) or (quickly open through the switcher.)

Or, upon second reading, perhsp

> For example, you'll be able to type the IPython console you want to (switch to,) or (quickly open through the switcher.)

And after some more reading, I thought it might be

> For example, you'll be able to type the IPython console you want to (switch to,) or (quickly open) through the switcher.

However, none of these entirely make sense.

Taking a better stab at it:

```suggestion
For example, you'll be to quickly open or switch to a specific console just by typing its name.
```

> We can't wait to release these continued enhancements to Spyder's interface and usability, and as always, happy Spydering!🕸️

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I can't wait to release these continued enhancements to Spyder's interface and usability, and as always, happy Spydering!🕸️
```

Blog is in first person.
